Snapchat creators can pitch shows that appear on the platform's stories feed.
If approved by the company, the show and creator make money through ad-revenue sharing.
Cameron Ajdari, an influencer manager who's landed four shows, shared his tips for a successful pitch.
Of all the ways Snapchat creators can monetize their content, shows are becoming increasingly attractive because of the exposure they get on the platform.

Introduced on Snapchat in 2016, shows are similar to stories, which are vertical pieces of short-form content that last for 24 hours. However, unlike stories, shows don't expire. They typically consist of three-to five-minute long episodes that are more polished than stories and focus on specific topics or themes. They're promoted prominently on the platform's Discover feed, which is on the stories page that's directly to the right of the camera.

On shows — and, more recently, on stories — creators earn a cut of the revenue from ads that appear in the content. Snap does not publicly disclose what the revenue split is, but some creators have said the ad-revenue program in general has been quite lucrative for them.

While anyone can pitch a show through a Google form, shows are created by a select community of partners, including news outlets, media companies, creators, sports teams, and more, a Snap spokesperson told Insider. The content needs to be original, and the creator or licensor needs to have the rights to it.

Cameron Ajdari, founder of the digital-talent management firm Currents, has landed four shows for his clients since the start of 2023.

The first and most successful one, Couple Pranks, averages 12 million to 15 million views a month with roughly two videos a week, Ajdari said.

Ajdari shared the best practices that have helped his company pitch shows to Snap successfully.

A man and a woman hugging each other and smiling at the camera in front of a purple background.
Chris and Chenoa Vale host the Couple Pranks Snap show. Currents Management
Here are Ajdari's top 3 strategies for landing a successful Snap show
Go to a licensed content partner
Pitching a show requires a bit of behind-the-scenes maneuvering, Ajdari said.

While there are technically no limitations for individual creators to pitch a Snap show, Ajdari recommends creators get help from licensing partners, like Jellysmack and Studio71, or smaller players like his firm Currents, rather than try their own luck. 

These companies help liaise with Snap, and handle the administration and distribution of shows in exchange for a portion of the revenue.

One of the things I've observed with Snap is they have strict guidelines, Ajdari said. They want to make sure they've vetted you.

For smaller firms that want to ensure their success when pitching a show, Ajdari recommends building relationships with Snap employees first. Otherwise, the process can be a bit of a black box, he said.

Make sure you have a 'Snappy' theme
Unlike with stories from individual creators that can focus on everyday life, Snap only green-lights shows with specific themes.

The subject needs to be Snappy, Ajdari said, meaning that it needs to match the ecosystem of Snap.

In his experience, this means something attention-grabbing, a little sensational, with an interesting visual component, and with quick cuts to help increase retention.

Here are some topics that can work for shows, according to an email Ajdari received from Snap 

Beauty creator shows
Satisfying content (e.g. pressure washing, slime, hydraulic presses)
General entertainment format shows (i.e. MTV's Fear Factor revival, Hot Ones)
Fashion-person deep dives
Aspirational living
Hosted or personality-driven hard news
Single-topic or explainer hard news
Inspirational non-traditional sports
Combat sports
Repurpose your existing content
Creators can lay the groundwork for a show pitch by looking to the content they're already publishing on other video platforms like YouTube or TikTok, Adjari said.

Think about the key theme or some of the key elements that make your content unique, he said. Highlight that, describe it in a concise way, then package the best content you have out there already into three- to five-minute videos.

Creators of long-form content, like podcasts, can try a different avenue splicing short clips of the most meaty parts of their podcast episodes, the way many creators do for other short-form platforms, Adjari said.